\hypertarget{task-prioritization}{%
\section{Task Prioritization}\label{task-prioritization}}

\begin{tcolorbox}[enhanced jigsaw, toptitle=1mm, coltitle=black, colframe=quarto-callout-important-color-frame, colbacktitle=quarto-callout-important-color!10!white, titlerule=0mm, opacityback=0, rightrule=.15mm, bottomtitle=1mm, title={Â§Abstract}, bottomrule=.15mm, breakable, left=2mm, arc=.35mm, toprule=.15mm, leftrule=.75mm, colback=white, opacitybacktitle=0.6]

Pre-existing literature suggests that relative material scarcity --
particularly wealth inequality -- is a significant contributing factor
in dictating how people behave. We characterize irrational
decision-making across impoverished groups by examining the effects of
inefficiency in time allocation.

We experimentally model time allocation in low SES groups by
administering an artificial priority queue where agents must attend to
tasks with differing levels of effort, urgency and value. Observations
suggest that individuals from low SES groups prioritize urgent tasks
while agents from high SES groups prioritize high value tasks.

\end{tcolorbox}

Poverty is a multi-dimensional problem, and behavioral scientists have
focused on the effects of the environment on the decision-making process
across socio-economic levels (Bertrand et al., 2004). Their underlying
assumption is that humans share the same underlying biology and
psychology, and that ``poverty'' causes significant changes in people's
environments and, in turn, their decisions. For example, living in
poverty often means having a limited set of options in life (from
choosing what to have for dinner to which occupation to pursue), and it
increases the number of demands in terms of time and mental resources
(Banerjee \& Duflo, 2012). This lack of control over choices leads to a
chronic state of vigilance and stress (Chemin et al., 2013).

In this paper, we focus on the trade-offs between urgency and importance
in day-to-day decisions. It is hypothesized that, in the mass of to-dos
and responsibilities, those with limited resources have to leave
specific tasks undone. Consequently, we argue that they may not have
time to complete all tasks or the necessary money and, as a result, must
decide what to prioritize in their lives. Although one could
theoretically calculate the most optimal course of action, it is
improbable that individuals would take this actuarial approach. Instead,
we argue that they are more likely to use heuristics or intuition to
decide what problem to address, where to spend money, and what to leave
undone. Such heuristics, however, are prone to fail under particular
circumstances.

We argue that, under the strain faced by the poor, a series of behaviors
and physiological phenomena arise. Making ``urgent versus important''
trade-offs causes stress and anxiety levels to increase and shift
attention towards specific features of a choice. We propose that an
environment of poverty shifts the weight placed on the urgency of a task
(e.g., estimating that urgent tasks will ``come back to bite'' much
faster than others and estimating that nonurgent opportunities are
unlikely to disappear or change). This urgency mindset may increase
stress and anxiety levels, leading the poor to spend significant
portions of their income on tobacco, alcohol, and lotteries (Banerjee \&
Duflo, 2007; Blalock et al., 2007; Haisley et al., 2008; World Health
Organization, 2021). Individuals in low socio-economic groups tend to
save too little (Shurtleff, 2009) frequently borrow at exorbitant
interest rates (Banerjee \& Duflo, 2007; Skiba \& Tobacman, 2008), and
limit preventive healthcare services (Lusardi et al., 2010).

\hypertarget{poverty-traps}{%
\subsection{Poverty Traps}\label{poverty-traps}}

We argue that the poor are caught in an ``urgency trap,'' where neglect
of nonurgent tasks may cause an increase of urgency in the future. For
example, not undergoing regular medical check-ups may increase
susceptibility to unexpected illnesses.

This phenomenon is closely related to the theory of poverty traps. This
framework defines a self-perpetuating phenomena that arise when an
economy is caught within a cycle that suffers from persistent
undevelopment. In this paper, we model poverty traps as an equilibrium
which favors disutility over iterative cycles. To determine causal
relationships between such outcomes and the behavior of low SES (type 1)
agents, we examine cases of suboptimality that are distinct from high
SES (type 2) agents. To assess self-reinforcing behavior intrinsic to
poverty traps, we classify and compare the choice behavior of type 1
agents in regards to their time allocation.

\hypertarget{priority-queuing}{%
\subsection{Priority Queuing}\label{priority-queuing}}

Time allocation is often modeled through priority queues, models to
represent ordinal choices of tasks attended to based on some subjective
value or utility function. Triaging bays often treat queues as a
function of urgency and order of arrival, whilst donor matching programs
facilitate queues based on a point-system which weights time, severity
and likelihood of survival.

Two critical Priority Queuing models are developed by Cobham and
Barabasi. While Cobham's model treats a queue as an infinite list of
tasks, with varying task arrival times and execution rates, the Barabasi
model treats the queue as a finite size list with waiting times
(\(\tau_w\)).

\begin{equation}\protect\hypertarget{eq-prio-q}{}{
P(\tau_w) = \left\{
            \begin{array}{ll}
            1 - \frac{1-p^2}{4p}\ln\frac{1+p}{1-p},\\
            \frac{1-p^2}{4p(\tau_w - 1)}[(\frac{1+p}{2})^{\tau_w-1} - (\frac{1-p}{2})^{\tau_w - 1}],
            \end{array}
            \right.
}\label{eq-prio-q}\end{equation}

We observe that mathematically as \(p \rightarrow 0\), this distribution
reduces to an inverse poisson distribution.Ultimately this expression is
independent of the priority distribution - suggesting that the alginment
of task priorities has no role on the time for these respective tasks to
be executed.

Unfortunately, the preexisting models for priority queues are limited in
regards to applications. There is negligible literature about priority
queuing in marginalized groups and in regards to how priority queuing is
rationalizable.

One set of literature describes priority queues as a double-sided
matching market with queues that depend on priorities and also impatient
customers (Castro et al 2020). In this literature, customers of high
value are matched prior to those of low value, and likewise impatient
customers can leave the queue if they are not matched immediately with a
customer of their priority. In such queues, customers are matched
according to the order they arrive in and the available participants in
the other market. A notable feature of this literature is that customers
of high priority are perceived as more preferred than customers who are
highly impatient. Essentially after the steady-state build up of
customers in the queue increases, high priority customers are queued and
low-priority customers are told to wait. While this behavior is
representative of many cases in real life, it does not particularly
align with the behavior that the extended literature from Role Strain
suggests about the decision-making choices of individuals from low SES.
There is clearly a disconnect in how the average individual prioritizes
tasks and likewise how poor individuals do as well.

\hypertarget{urgency-and-importance}{%
\subsubsection{Urgency and Importance}\label{urgency-and-importance}}

Although some scientists have proposed a ``Scarcity'' view of poverty
(Mullainathan \& Shafir, 2014), their conclusions have not withstood the
scrutiny of science, leaving the causes and mechanisms of these
phenomena largely unexplained (O'Donnell et al., 2021). We seek a more
rigorous understanding of how relative-poverty can be self-perpetuating
through poor time allocation. We explain prioritization of day-to-day
tasks as an attempt to balance two requirements: (1) maximize life
satisfaction given one's limited resources, and (2) minimize the
potentially harmful effects of leaving tasks undone change with time. We
call the former requirement ``importance'' and the latter ``urgency''
(Bratterud et al., 2020).

The Eisenhower Matrix (see @app-eisenhower for details), a simple tool
for determining optimal long-term decisions, is a simplification of how
individuals determine their queue for attending to daily tasks. This
framework uses dimensions of urgency (time scarcity) and importance
(expected value maximization) as primary motivations for which tasks
require completion. We intend to characterize the mapping between
urgency \(U\) and importance \(I\) , namely
\(\{ U,I \} \mapsto \mathbb{R}\). As discussed in
Section~\ref{sec-poverty}, the literature speculates the influence of
effort costs in decision-making - thereby suggesting Eisenhower Matrices
should be modified to account for the added parameter.

\hypertarget{simulation}{%
\paragraph{Simulation}\label{simulation}}

Priority Queues models are a tangible mechanism for capturing the
choices and inter-event time agents require in regards to
decision-making for daily tasks. Using the pre-existing literature
surrounding poverty, we simulate an artificial priority queue, using a
priority function

\begin{equation}\protect\hypertarget{eq-prio}{}{
\text{Priority} = \alpha U + (1- \alpha) I
}\label{eq-prio}\end{equation}

where \(U, I, \alpha\) are ``urgency,'' ``importance,'' and the urgency
weight, respectively.

Our first step is to run a discrete-event simulation (DES) to uncover
the relationship between \(\alpha\) , probability of survival, and
burstiness measures. DES is a technique for modelling stochastic,
dynamic and discretely evolving systems. In this framework, consider:

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  An individual who is able to finish any job
\item
  A ready supply of jobs with no prospect of any shortages
\item
  Jobs are allocated a priority when they arrive in the queue according
  to Equation~\ref{eq-prio}
\item
  The time taken to complete a job is variable but independent of the
  task
\end{enumerate}

We define the completion time for the different activities as random
draws from an exponential distribution with \(\lambda = 5\). Likewise,
the interarrival times for tasks are from an exponential distribution of
\(\lambda = 5\). Each incoming task receives \(U, I \sim Unif(0,1)\) and
a priority according to Equation~\ref{eq-prio}. Tasks are completed in
the order of priority.

Importantly, each task contains a survival rate as a function of its
importance. The higher the urgency, the more likely the task is to fail
(or die off). This feature internalizes the fact that urgent tasks may
bring imminent negative consequences. The survival probability of a task
is given by a Weibull distribution with a monomial function:

\[
\Pr (\text{survival}|\alpha = s(1+U),\beta=1) = 1 - e^{(-t/\alpha)^\beta}
\] where \(t\) is the wait time, and \(s\) is a scaling parameter (in
the following simulations calibrated to be 100). As such, each task
contains a survival probability, which is then accumulated throughout
the ask, such that the cumulative survival rate of later tasks are
smaller than those of earlier ones.

By simulating this queue, we can graph a heatmap with the relationship
of the weight of urgency on the priority function (\(\alpha\)) and
cumulative survival rate:

@simmer-simulation shows that those with higher urgency weights are more
likely to survive longer in the queue.

Further, with interevent times, we can calculate the burstiness and
memory as a function of urgency weights.

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/simmer-burstiness-1.pdf}

}

\caption{Burstiness by Urgency Weight}

\end{figure}

@simmer-burstiness shows that the surviving tasks are indeed around the
area of bursty phenomena as reported in the literature. However, there
does not seem to be a relationship between urgency weighting and
burstiness.

\hypertarget{sec-poverty}{%
\subsection{Relating to Poverty}\label{sec-poverty}}

The literature suggests that the persistence of generational poverty is
propagated by countless environmental, physical and psychological
factors known as ``Poverty Traps'' (Barrett et al 2016). Though the
dynamics of these negative feedback loops are heavily researched, the
commonly invoked mechanism suggests that these traps exist due to a
country, person or economy being unable to accumulate enough capital for
incomes to rise. However, more recent literature suggests that investing
additional capital within an environment will not raise the long-term
steady-state income level (Kraay et al 2014) - contradicting the
commonly held position. Many studies also investigate whether S-shaped
curves, a great predicator of temporally dynamic relationships between
income and assets, are indicative of poverty traps. However, this type
of analysis has frequently yielded incorrect assessments of
poverty-trapping due to a proclivity for numerical errors that such an
approach poses. Given the misleading nature of many theoretical
approaches to characterize poverty traps, the limited strain of
literature addressing this topic has recently begun veering in the
direction of seeking behavioral prescriptions.

Our analysis of poverty traps will explore how self-reinforcing
behaviors in priority queues represent distinct facets of poverty traps.

\hypertarget{irrationality-of-time-allocation}{%
\subsubsection{Irrationality of Time
Allocation}\label{irrationality-of-time-allocation}}

A particular facet of ``poverty traps'' can be attributed to the
inefficiency of daily task management. Individuals are described as
making a sequence of decisions and bargains in order to reduce the
strain of their daily demands and roles in a process similar to that of
an economic decision: Allocating limited resources such as energy, time,
emotions, and goods (Goode, 1960) in different ways. For individuals who
belonging to a higher socioeconomic class (SEC), delegating these roles
becomes far easier, and the bandwidth to tackle other tasks increases
significantly. The converse is true however as well: the poorer one is,
the more uncontrolled demand there is on both time and money.

\hypertarget{role-strain}{%
\subsubsection{Role Strain}\label{role-strain}}

Role strain, the ``effort'' dimension or subjective value individuals
attribute to completing arbitrary tasks, is observed to be higher among
the poor (Hopper et al 2020). Formulated in 1960 by Columbia sociologist
William Goode, this theory argues that individuals cannot meet all role
demands, and through a series of role decisions and bargains, they
strive to adjust these demands. In this process, they allocate scarce
resources-\/-role energies, time, emotions, goods-\/-among the role
obligations they have to fulfill. In other words, individuals seek to
minimize their perceived role strain (the cognitive and emotional effort
of carrying out their duties).

Adding tasks to already demanding circumstances will only add to role
strain, while adding an extra participant to assist with tasks will
instead diminish the strain. A hypothesized cause of poverty traps is
the proclivity for the impoverished to over-commit to high urgency
tasks, thereby neglecting or under-commiting to high effort or high
importance tasks. Goode concurs with this assessment, claiming that
conflicts among task choices typically arise through role conflict (when
two roles have demands which are mutually exclusive) or role overload
(when an individual is too resource scarce to meet the demands of
multiple roles). The latter holds more weight in our research goals, an
assertion we further investigate.

\hypertarget{scarcity}{%
\subsubsection{Scarcity}\label{scarcity}}

Notably, time and resource scarcity are positively correlated with
socioeconomic class. Essentially, a paucity of goods is intrinsic to
individuals who are poor. The behavioral patterns which emerge as a
result, align with the expected results from Role Strain literature. In
countless replication studies, it has been determined that scarcity
yields an increase in focus during task completion. The most prominent
replication exercise conducted five experiments in which different
resources were withheld in order to induce a scarcity complex (Shah et
al 2012). In each game, participants were awarded a differing number of
``guesses,'' or ``attempts'' as a source of currency in order to
simulate either resource abundance or scarcity across players. It was
observed that when players were more resource scarce, focus on the task
increased as a response to the limited opportunities for success that
were available. Although the efficiency and accuracy at tasks completion
improved for such players, a byproduct was an increase in stress as
well. This same outcome has been confirmed in alternative literature (de
Bruijn et al 2021), when it was determined that for individuals who have
less resources, their daily tasks become increasingly taxing and
necessitate more attention (AdamkoviÄ et al 2022).

\hypertarget{cognitive-load}{%
\subsubsection{Cognitive Load}\label{cognitive-load}}

The cognitive fatigue that such tasks cause individuals to endure can
become overwhelming. Countless literature suggests that in the aftermath
of highly strenuous tasks caused by induced scarcity, attentional shifts
become more commonplace. However, other studies claim that there may not
be enough information to thoroughly arrive at this conclusion.
Nonetheless, nearly all of the current literature converges to the
understanding that poverty inadvertently results in overborrowing of
resources -- particularly of those that are scarce. This phenomenon is
exemplified with debt -- low SES individuals with a lower credit score
are at higher risk for requesting loans.

\hypertarget{relating-to-anxiety}{%
\subsection{Relating to Anxiety}\label{relating-to-anxiety}}

In this study, we propose that the behavioral deviations brought by
overweighting urgency are mediated by affect. Specifically, it is
through stress or anxiety that these shifts occur. Previously, Morris
and Coley (2004, \url{https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2004-18349-003})
examined correlates of role strain among mothers. They find a variety of
factors that increase the ``strain'' in this population. By extension,
we propose three channels though which role strain may increase the
urgency bias, as follows:

\begin{figure}[H]

{\centering \includegraphics[width=5in,height=2.53in]{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/mermaid-figure-1.png}

}

\end{figure}

\hypertarget{the-experiment}{%
\section{The Experiment}\label{the-experiment}}

In practical applications, we can imagine an icecream parlor as a
paragon example of Priority Queuing in which tasks require are imbued
with varying degrees of effort, urgency and value. Effort is a tangible
variable and can be measured by complexity of icecream created:
additional toppings, or additional flavors. We imagine importance as the
monetary value, or utility, reaped from completing a task. Urgency can
be measured by customers who are impatient. We imagine such participants
as having a finite time until they leave the queue and both the value
and effort variable associated with their task becomes dismissed.

\hypertarget{structure}{%
\subsection{Structure}\label{structure}}

Our experiment, created on Pavlovia, simulates the outlined scenario in
an online format. We construct a 2-task queue which indicates what type
of ``order'' or task an agent must attend to: (high/low) urgency,
(high/low) effort, (high/low) importance. High importance is visually
represented by two dollar signs, which low importance is represented by
one dollar sign. Likewise, two heart represent high urgency, and one
heart represents low urgency. Finally, the effort variable is
characterized by the number of ``clicks'' and the likelihood to
``squint'' - real effort costs for participants - a specific task
requires. This generally occurs when specific sprinkle/scoop pairings
are presented. Note that the nomenclature for identifying these tasks
has a three symbol standard, where the first symbol represents the value
of a task (H or L for high or low), the second symbol represents the
effort (H or L) and the final symbol represents the urgency (H or 0 for
high or non-urgent).

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{images/2ice.png}

}

\caption{The top of the display is the 2-task queue, the bottom of the
display are the clicks participants must make to successfully complete a
task.}

\end{figure}

For every iteration of the game that a high urgency task is unattended
to, the value of the task decreases - at which point the participant
leaves the queue if the value reaches no dollar signs.

To incentivize players in the game, we offer a \(\$1.00\) prize which is
contingent on the total number of dollar-signs, total value, players
accumulate throughout the game. A counter is positioned on the display
to indicate progress. Likewise, we perform 20 iterations of this
experiment: sufficient time to gauge patterns within participant
behavior. An important feature of this experiment is that participants
can attend to tasks in any order, not necessarily left to right, which
effectively should indicate how they prioritize all three of these
factors. In general, our rudimentary experimental design appears as
follows:

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{images/totalice.jpeg}

}

\caption{The figure above represents the basic interface programmed for
the game. Participants have a queue at the top of the game, and a series
of icons they must press in order to complete a task. The hearts and
dollar signs on a task represent the importance and urgency of the task
and the money counter at the bottom of the screen indicates the
accumulated wealth of the participant.}

\end{figure}

Although we do not gather inter-event data from this game (can we use
the RTs to calculate tau?), players are unaware of this feature. We
expect that many participants rush and become stressed - traits of
induced scarcity. To measure relative SES and relative anxiety, we use a
post and intro survey to determine a relative deprivation index and also
a set of STAI.

We should note that specific task situations require minimal cognition.
If an individual is presented with a high value, high urgency task then
they will always choose this this task. However, if an individual is
presented a high importance, low urgency task and a high urgency, low
importance task - it is not entirely apparent what the optimal course of
action for future outcomes may be, and more so what choices individuals
will make. Using R, we capture these results and output baseline charts
of what the choice distribution looks like.

\hypertarget{simulation-1}{%
\subsubsection{Simulation}\label{simulation-1}}

We devised a theoretical model for how we expect rational
decision-making to manifest in our priority queuing experiment such that
frequency of deviations from rationality can be monitored. To formalize
the optimal, or rational, set of behavior for maximizing rewards over
long-term exposure in a queue, we developed a closed-form model. We
hypothesize that this decision-making process can be summarized by a
simple subjective-value function, where every individual determines the
priority or preference \(\succeq_q\) by the subjective value utility
representation. We thus developed a stochastic model, as follows:

\begin{equation}\protect\hypertarget{eq-model}{}{
\begin{aligned} 
V(s) &= \max\limits_{a}(r(s,a) + \gamma\sum\limits_{S}P(s,a, s')V(s'))\\
    S &= \{HHU \times HHU, HHU \times HH0, LHU \times LHU, â¦\}\\
    r(a,s) &= i_a - c_a\\
    R &= {r(HHU, HHV \times HHU) = 1 - c_H, â¦}\\
    V(s_{final}) &= \max\limits_{a}(r(s_{final}, a))
\end{aligned}
}\label{eq-model}\end{equation}

In Equation~\ref{eq-model} the agent calculates the value of state
\(s' \in S\) (which is the next state, i.e., next period). \(i\) is the
reward (in dollars) for completing a task, \(c_i\) is the effort cost
(estimated in dollar unites), and \(r(a,s)\) is the net payoff of
completing action \(a\) at state \(s\). \(P\) is the probability of
transitioning from state \(s\) to another state \((s')\), given that our
agents takes action \(a\) in state \(s\). \(V(s')\) is the value of that
new state. We subsequently sum these results over all the possible
future states. Note we use \(\gamma\) as our discount factor. In our
normative model, we set the discounting factor to be 1. Note that this
model only has two cost parameters \(c=\{c_L, c_H\}\).

We build upon this by then generating an optimal protocol for
identifying the best set of choices at any stage for maximizing
long-term outcomes. Using dynamic programming, a recursive method of
taking the outcomes of subgames and applying it to the entire scheme, we
identify which tasks should be chosen given stage of the 2-task queue.
Given this framework, we can graph the ratio of urgent choices at each
given state, as a function of the cost parameter \(c_H\) and the
discount factor (here \(c_L = 0\) for all cases).

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/dyn-pro-simulation-results-1.pdf}

}

\caption{Percentage of Urgent Choices}

\end{figure}

@dyn-pro-simulation-results shows that the optimal percentage of urgent
choices varies by around 0.10, with lower probabilities centered around
low cost parameters and high discount factors.

\hypertarget{data}{%
\subsection{Data}\label{data}}

We administered our experiment over both Mturk and Prolific. In our
MTurk administration, we acquired N = 22 participants, and via Prolific,
N = 53. Here, we treat these samples as independent replications.

\hypertarget{demographics}{%
\subsubsection{Demographics}\label{demographics}}

For both Mturk and Prolific, we distinguish high-low income and high-low
anxiety by a median split. The high income mean is about 70k, while the
low income mean is around 30k \((p<0.001)\). Likewise, the high anxiety
mean score is 56.29, while low anxiety mean score is 37.17
\((p<0.001)\).

\begin{longtable}[]{@{}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.1827}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.1250}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2212}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2212}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2212}}@{}}
\toprule\noalign{}
\begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
MTurk\\
N=22 x 20 trials\strut
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Mean
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Median
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Min
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Max
\end{minipage} \\
\midrule\noalign{}
\endhead
\bottomrule\noalign{}
\endlastfoot
Age & 34.53 & 33 & 19 & 50 \\
Income & & \$40,000 to \$49,999 & Less than \$10,000 & \$90,000 to
\$99,999 \\
Education & & Bachelor's degree & High school graduate & Master's
degree \\
STAI & 44.21 & 47 & 20 & 67 \\
\end{longtable}

\begin{longtable}[]{@{}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.1827}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.1250}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2212}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2212}}
  >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{(\columnwidth - 8\tabcolsep) * \real{0.2212}}@{}}
\caption{The two samples display similar demographics}\tabularnewline
\toprule\noalign{}
\begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Prolific\\
N=53 x 20 trials\strut
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Mean
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Median
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Min
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Max
\end{minipage} \\
\midrule\noalign{}
\endfirsthead
\toprule\noalign{}
\begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Prolific\\
N=53 x 20 trials\strut
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Mean
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Median
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Min
\end{minipage} & \begin{minipage}[b]{\linewidth}\raggedright
Max
\end{minipage} \\
\midrule\noalign{}
\endhead
\bottomrule\noalign{}
\endlastfoot
Age & 30.13 & 28 & 18 & 75 \\
Income & & \$40,000 to \$49,999 & Less than \$10,000 & \$90,000 to
\$99,999 \\
Education & & Bachelor's degree & High school graduate & Master's
degree \\
STAI & 45.04 & 45 & 20 & 68 \\
\end{longtable}

\hypertarget{measures-of-poverty}{%
\subsubsection{Measures of Poverty}\label{measures-of-poverty}}

Although income-based measures have long been the standard for assessing
poverty, studies have since determined that purchasing power and
standard of living are not accurately measured by such a metric. Rather,
relative deprivation and state-trait anxiety measures are often more
accurate empirical measurements of an individual's socioeconomic status
(SES).

\hypertarget{self-reported-income}{%
\paragraph{Self-Reported Income}\label{self-reported-income}}

Though the simplest measure to collect, self-reported incomes has a
number of limitations. Participants may have the incentive not to
divulge their true income levels. This bias can occur in both directions
depending on the context and demand effects (e.g., a participant may
want to appear richer or poorer than they actually are). Further,
because exact income, when combined with other demographic measures,
could potentially be used to identify participants, it is customary to
elicit income brackets (vs.~absolute income levels). This limitation may
also reduce power and granularity in the our analysis.

\hypertarget{zip-code-measures}{%
\paragraph{ZIP code Measures}\label{zip-code-measures}}

To remove measurement error from self-reported income, we use median
income and poverty measures by the zip code of each participant, as
provided by Qualtrics (which collects IP addresses of each participant).

Our poverty measures are from the American Community Survey (ACS). The
Census Bureau uses a set of dollar value thresholds that vary by family
size and composition to determine who is in poverty, with thresholds
(income cutoffs) arranged in a two-dimensional matrix (income and family
size, from one person to nine or more people).

Our median income data is based on the distribution of the total number
of households and families including those with no income.

For more information, check
\url{https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/tech_docs/subject_definitions/2021_ACSSubjectDefinitions.pdf}

\hypertarget{composite-measure-pca}{%
\paragraph{Â¶Composite Measure (PCA)}\label{composite-measure-pca}}

Given that poverty is a multidimensional variable, we attempt to capture
it through a series of questions (see @questionnaires for details). We
created several questions about physical, mental, and monetary
deprivation. We then summarized these results in a PCA. We use only the
top two components, as per the Scree plot:

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/pca-scree-1.pdf}

\begin{figure}

\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-10-1.pdf}

}

\caption{pca-measure}

}

\end{minipage}%
%
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-10-2.pdf}

}

\caption{pca-measure}

}

\end{minipage}%
\newline
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-10-3.pdf}

}

\caption{pca-measure}

}

\end{minipage}%
%
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-10-4.pdf}

}

\caption{pca-measure}

}

\end{minipage}%

\end{figure}

\hypertarget{dimension-1-top-5-contributors}{%
\subparagraph{``Dimension 1'' top 5
contributors:}\label{dimension-1-top-5-contributors}}

(Higher dimension values = higher ``depression'')

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  How would you rate your mental health over the past 4 weeks? (1-5)
\item
  Please select Yes or No for each of the following questions (YES = 1,
  NO = 2).

  \begin{enumerate}
  \def\labelenumii{\alph{enumii}.}
  \tightlist
  \item
    I am happy about achieving something good in the last 4 weeks.
  \item
    Depressed and unhappy.
  \end{enumerate}
\item
  Over the past 2 weeks, how often have you felt down, depressed, or
  hopeless?
\item
  Over the past 2 weeks, how often have you felt little interest or
  pleasure in doing things?
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{dimension-2-top-5-contributors}{%
\subparagraph{``Dimension 2'' top 5
contributors:}\label{dimension-2-top-5-contributors}}

(Higher dim. values = higher ``concern for mental health'')

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  How important are the following:

  \begin{enumerate}
  \def\labelenumii{\alph{enumii}.}
  \tightlist
  \item
    How you feel about yourself
  \item
    Your mental state of being
  \item
    Your physical state of being
  \end{enumerate}
\item
  How important are the following aspects of your life?

  \begin{enumerate}
  \def\labelenumii{\alph{enumii}.}
  \tightlist
  \item
    I need to be mentally healthy
  \item
    Having a good house to stay in
  \end{enumerate}
\end{enumerate}

Note: We included other deprivation questions related to
physical/monetary deprivation. However, those questions did not yield
sufficient variance.

\hypertarget{results}{%
\subsection{Results}\label{results}}

\hypertarget{choice}{%
\subsubsection{Choice}\label{choice}}

\hypertarget{task-performance}{%
\paragraph{Â¶Task Performance}\label{task-performance}}

\hypertarget{trade-off-decisions}{%
\paragraph{Â§Trade-off Decisions}\label{trade-off-decisions}}

When we compare an individual's choice of ``challenging'' tasks:
decisions between high urgency - low importance or low importance - high
urgency tasks, we observe that high anxiety and low income individuals
more often choose high urgency tasks over high value tasks, which
corroborates the current non-quantitative literature as can be observed
in the plots below.

\begin{figure*}

\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/trade-off-results-1.pdf}

}

\caption{Income}

}

\end{minipage}%
%
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/trade-off-results-2.pdf}

}

\caption{Anxiety}

}

\end{minipage}%
\newline
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

Choice proportions by income and anxiety

}

\end{minipage}%

\end{figure*}

Accuracy in trade-off decisions as a function of income and anxiety

Multiple regression models to test the same hypotheses with different
measures of income.

Percent of urgent choices (vs.~important) as a function of income and
anxiety.

\begin{tcolorbox}[enhanced jigsaw, toptitle=1mm, coltitle=black, colframe=quarto-callout-note-color-frame, colbacktitle=quarto-callout-note-color!10!white, titlerule=0mm, opacityback=0, rightrule=.15mm, bottomtitle=1mm, title=\textcolor{quarto-callout-note-color}{\faInfo}\hspace{0.5em}{Key Result}, bottomrule=.15mm, breakable, left=2mm, arc=.35mm, toprule=.15mm, leftrule=.75mm, colback=white, opacitybacktitle=0.6]

Individuals in the low income groups and in the high anxiety groups
chose urgent tasks more often than important tasks. This result is not
consistent for high income or low anxiety groups. Future graphs in this
document will show that the difference-in-difference is not as clear.

\end{tcolorbox}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
\item
  Multiple regression models to test the same hypotheses with different
  measures of income.
\item
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{general-urgency-bias}{%
\paragraph{Â§General Urgency Bias}\label{general-urgency-bias}}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/pca-stai-urg-bias-1.pdf}

It seems that when controlling for Dim 1 and 2, some effects become
significant. Multicollinearity might be a problem, although correlations
between STAI and PCA components are not higher than 0.6 (see correlation
plots above). These results might be a result of a separation between
State and Trait Anxiety. Although we only included the State questions
of STAI, state and trait scores are likely correlated. PCA dimensions 1
and 2 may control for this confounding effect.

We review the Key Results from the first pages: urgent choices do seem
to be above 50\% for key groups, but the differences-in-differences
across income and anxiety levels are not significant.

Again, people might not mind leaving the High Importance task undone.
This is what some friends have called the ``insurance ice cream.'' That
is, if I leave this High Importance task in my queue, I can use it when
I get a task that is High Effort but Low Urgency.\\

\hypertarget{reaction-time}{%
\subsubsection{Â¶Reaction Time}\label{reaction-time}}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-16-1.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-16-2.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-16-3.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-16-4.pdf}

\begin{verbatim}

Call:
glm(formula = as.numeric(RT) ~ Dim.1 * stai * Dim.2, family = "gaussian", 
    data = trade_off_accuracy)

Deviance Residuals: 
   Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max  
-4.307  -2.575  -1.595  -0.128  60.375  

Coefficients:
                  Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)
(Intercept)      -0.945966   4.699342  -0.201    0.841
Dim.1             0.133264   1.400407   0.095    0.924
stai              0.100305   0.102634   0.977    0.331
Dim.2             2.561913   2.392914   1.071    0.287
Dim.1:stai       -0.001859   0.030565  -0.061    0.952
Dim.1:Dim.2      -0.283810   0.754448  -0.376    0.708
stai:Dim.2       -0.065885   0.052188  -1.262    0.210
Dim.1:stai:Dim.2  0.003907   0.014055   0.278    0.782

(Dispersion parameter for gaussian family taken to be 54.92665)

    Null deviance: 4945.2  on 94  degrees of freedom
Residual deviance: 4778.6  on 87  degrees of freedom
  (47 observations deleted due to missingness)
AIC: 659.81

Number of Fisher Scoring iterations: 2
\end{verbatim}

\hypertarget{accuracy}{%
\subsubsection{Â¶Accuracy}\label{accuracy}}

We also obtain a comparison of the choices participants make and the
optimal, or rational, protocol we generated. This is done by estimating
a hierarchical Bayesian model\ldots{}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-17-1.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-17-2.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-17-3.pdf}

Histogram for Prolific Data. Unlike MTurk, this distribution looks
normal. This score is calculated by first estimating the cost parameters
for each participant and then using them with backwards induction to
discover the optimal choice at each presented state.

K: explanation + histogram

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/accuracy-histogram-1.pdf}

}

\caption{Histogram of Accuracy Proportions}

\end{figure}

@accuracy-histogram highlights how participants typically make optimal
decisions (when given `challenging' tasks) with a probability in between
0.5 and 0.6. This is generally what we expect to observe.

\hypertarget{accuracy-anxiety-and-income}{%
\paragraph{Â§Accuracy, Anxiety, and
Income}\label{accuracy-anxiety-and-income}}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  Accuracy in trade-off decisions as a function of income and anxiety
\end{enumerate}

Finally, we compare for each participant, how many of their choices are
identical to a model that observed the full horizon for the Markov
decision process. Each participant is a dot, y axis is the peerage of
correct choices in the experiment while x axis is the STAI (anxiety
measure). Generally the results are very similar to figure 1.5.

\begin{figure*}

\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/aggregate-accuracy-results-1.pdf}

}

\caption{Prolific, Income}

}

\end{minipage}%
%
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/aggregate-accuracy-results-2.pdf}

}

\caption{Prolific, Anxiety}

}

\end{minipage}%
\newline
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

Aggregate Accuracy by Income and Anxiety

}

\end{minipage}%

\end{figure*}

It appears that Accuracy does not vary across income and anxiety levels
with these measures. Some possibilities of this fact might include that,
since time discounting here is virtually 0, leaving the important task
behind will not affect participants as much (depending, of course, of
the estimated cost parameters).

\begin{figure*}

\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/accuracy-results-1.pdf}

}

\caption{Accuracy in trade-off decisions as a function of self-reported
income}

}

\end{minipage}%
%
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/accuracy-results-2.pdf}

}

\caption{Accuracy in trade-off decisions as a function of self-reported
anxiety, by the STAI questionnaire}

}

\end{minipage}%
\newline
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

Trial Accuracy by Income and Anxiety (logistic function fit)

}

\end{minipage}%

\end{figure*}

\hypertarget{future-directions}{%
\section{Future Directions}\label{future-directions}}

\hypertarget{power-analysis}{%
\subsection{Power Analysis}\label{power-analysis}}

\hypertarget{behavioral-measures}{%
\subsubsection{Â§Behavioral Measures}\label{behavioral-measures}}

\begin{verbatim}
(Intercept) 
  0.7685878 
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
(Intercept) 
  0.5509434 
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
(Intercept) 
  0.3838275 
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
(Intercept) 
  0.5942471 
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
[1] 0.07260647
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
[1] 2.567568
\end{verbatim}

\hypertarget{physiological-measures}{%
\subsubsection{Â¶Physiological Measures}\label{physiological-measures}}

``Sartorial Symbols of Social Class Elicit Class-Consistent Behavioral
and Physiological Responses: A Dyadic Approach'' (Kraus et al 2014)

Goal of paper: Determine the psychological response among participants
paired across socio-economic groups.

N = 128, 64 dyads (20 upper class, 20 lower class, 24 neutral condition)

DV = HRV (Heart Rate Variability) reactivity differences between high
vs.~low class

Prior = Upper-class = -0.69, se = 0.31; Lower-class = 0.04, se = 0.31

\hypertarget{redesign}{%
\subsection{Â§Redesign}\label{redesign}}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  A clock on the screen will display how long you have until that task,
  or the customer, decides to leave the line.
\item
  This will mean you can no longer make money for that task.
\item
  In the first round of this experiment, you will experience monetary
  ``shocks.'' This means that at random times, some money might be taken
  from your total accumulated reward with no warning.
\item
  In the second round of this experiment, the rate at which orders
  arrive will be doubled at random times. However, there will be no
  monetary shocks.
\item
  Queue length is not fixed.
\end{enumerate}

- Skin conductance, Cortisol, Eye tracking

\hypertarget{probabilistic-choice}{%
\subsubsection{Â§Probabilistic Choice}\label{probabilistic-choice}}

As seen in @accuracy-results,

Revisit the experiment to address the range of urgent choices. One
possibility is to add an artificial discount factor. Another possibility
is to explore non-deterministic choices (that is, urgency does not mean
certain decay of value from one state to another, but a probable decay).

\hypertarget{perceived-effort}{%
\subsubsection{Perceived Effort}\label{perceived-effort}}

Stress has been suggested to increase perceived effort (e.g., the study
will investigate whether it's more tiring to complete a task when
stressed), leading low-income individuals to be less likely to take up
welfare programs, regardless of eligibility (Bertrand et al., 2006;
Hernanz et al., 2004).

In our model, cost can include a subjective component. Instead of
counting it as simply the number of clicks, we can assume that the agent
may dread or fantasize about action \(a\). As such, someone who likes
the task might not be bothered by doing it so the cost may be very close
to zero (or negative). And vice versa for someone who hates it.
Similarly, we can account for substituting \emph{subjective} probability
for objective probability. That is, people might distort the actual
probability of future events.

\hypertarget{flexible-queue-size}{%
\subsubsection{Flexible Queue Size}\label{flexible-queue-size}}

IRB

\hypertarget{comprehensive-measures-of-poverty}{%
\subsubsection{Comprehensive Measures of
Poverty}\label{comprehensive-measures-of-poverty}}

IRB

As seen in @pca-measure, Revisit questionnaire to address variance
problems. One possibility is to expand our sample to lower-income
people. Another option is to try other questions that would elicit more
variance.

Refer to @questionnaires for our current iteration of comprehensive
measurements.

\hypertarget{population}{%
\subsection{Population}\label{population}}

In Los Angeles, 18\% of residents worry every day or almost every day
about paying their bills, and 23\% worry about job loss (Baldassare et
al., 2021). This constant mindset of worry likely affects the livelihood
of these citizens. In a recent PPIC survey, about ``one in five
Californians report that they or someone in their household has cut back
on food (21\%), put off seeing a doctor or purchasing medicine to save
money (18\%), been unable to pay a monthly bill (17\%), or had
difficulty paying the rent or mortgage (17\%) in the last 12 months''
(Baldassare et al., 2021).

\hypertarget{online-sample}{%
\subsubsection{Online Sample}\label{online-sample}}

Pros and cons.

\hypertarget{homeless}{%
\subsubsection{Homeless}\label{homeless}}

M: Look Sera's studies

IRB: Justification

\hypertarget{other-low-ses-cohorts}{%
\subsubsection{Other Low SES Cohorts}\label{other-low-ses-cohorts}}

M: Proposal

\hypertarget{appendix}{%
\section*{Appendix}\label{appendix}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{Appendix}

\hypertarget{app-eisenhower}{%
\subsection{The Eisenhower Matrix}\label{app-eisenhower}}

``Who can define for us with accuracy the difference between the long
and short term! Especially whenever our affairs seem to be in crisis, we
are almost compelled to give our first attention to the urgent present
rather than to the important future.''

-\/-\/- Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1961 address to the Century Association

\begin{figure}

{\centering 

\href{https://todoist.com/productivity-methods/eisenhower-matrix}{\includegraphics[width=5.36in,height=\textheight]{images/eisenhower-matrix.png}}

}

\caption{Source:
https://todoist.com/productivity-methods/eisenhower-matrix}

\end{figure}

\hypertarget{app-fantasy-dread}{%
\subsection{Fantasy and Dread Model}\label{app-fantasy-dread}}

\[
\begin{aligned}
& V\left(s^{\prime}\right)=r(a)-c(a)+\gamma \sum_s P\left(a, s^{\prime}, s^{\prime \prime}\right) V\left(s^{\prime \prime}\right) \\
& \mathrm{SV}\left(\mathrm{s}^{\prime}\right)=\mathrm{r}(\mathrm{a})-e\left(a \mid z_e\right)+\gamma \sum_s S P(\cdot) V\left(s^{\prime}\right) \\
& e\left(a \mid z_e\right)=z_e(c(e)) \\
& \mathrm{SP}\left(a, s^{\prime}, s^{\prime \prime} \mid z_p\right)=z_p\left(P\left(a, s^{\prime}, s^{\prime \prime}\right)\right)
\end{aligned}
\]

where \(z_e, z_p\) correspond to fantasy/dread and a sense of urgency,
respectively. One possible

P() depends on whether unattended task ``decays''

\begin{figure}

\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{images/prob-weighting.png}

}

}

\subcaption{\label{fig-prob-weight}Probability Weighting}
\end{minipage}%
%
\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

\raisebox{-\height}{

\includegraphics{images/sense-urgency-illustration.png}

}

}

\subcaption{\label{fig-sense-urg}Probability Example}
\end{minipage}%

\caption{\label{fig-prob-weighting}Example of Subjective Probabilities}

\end{figure}

\hypertarget{illustration-priority-queuing}{%
\subsection{Illustration: Priority
Queuing}\label{illustration-priority-queuing}}

\begin{figure}

\begin{minipage}[t]{0.50\linewidth}

{\centering 

A list can contain an arbitrary number of tasks and the priority of each
task is an integer drawn from some distribution. The tasks are set to
arrive with the rate \(\lambda\) following a Poisson dynamics with
exponential arrival time distribution and they are executed with rate
\(\mu\) by always choosing the one with the highest priority.

}

\end{minipage}%

\caption{\label{fig-prioq}\includegraphics[width=3.2in,height=\textheight]{images/prioq-illustration.png}}

\end{figure}

\hypertarget{general-linear-models-of-accuracy}{%
\subsection{Â§General Linear Models of
Accuracy}\label{general-linear-models-of-accuracy}}

\begin{verbatim}
--------------------------------------------
Maximum Likelihood estimation
Newton-Raphson maximisation, 5 iterations
Return code 1: gradient close to zero (gradtol)
Log-Likelihood: -56.78464 
5  free parameters
Estimates:
                          Estimate Std. error t value Pr(> t)
(Intercept)             -9.321e-01  2.396e+00  -0.389   0.697
as.numeric(income)       2.699e-01  3.276e-01   0.824   0.410
stai                     4.295e-02  4.786e-02   0.897   0.370
as.numeric(income):stai -8.028e-03  6.989e-03  -1.149   0.251
sigma                    1.154e-10  7.857e-01   0.000   1.000
--------------------------------------------
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
--------------------------------------------
Maximum Likelihood estimation
Newton-Raphson maximisation, 6 iterations
Return code 2: successive function values within tolerance limit (tol)
Log-Likelihood: -57.3358 
7  free parameters
Estimates:
              Estimate Std. error t value Pr(> t)
(Intercept)  6.163e-02  1.357e+00   0.045   0.964
Dim.1        1.528e-01  3.291e-01   0.464   0.643
Dim.2        3.479e-01  7.047e-01   0.494   0.622
stai         8.776e-03  2.911e-02   0.301   0.763
Dim.1:stai  -3.690e-03  6.295e-03  -0.586   0.558
Dim.2:stai  -7.725e-03  1.411e-02  -0.547   0.584
sigma       -9.235e-09  1.077e+00   0.000   1.000
--------------------------------------------
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
--------------------------------------------
Maximum Likelihood estimation
Newton-Raphson maximisation, 5 iterations
Return code 1: gradient close to zero (gradtol)
Log-Likelihood: -56.63627 
5  free parameters
Estimates:
                        Estimate Std. error t value Pr(> t)
(Intercept)            6.697e-01  8.963e-01   0.747   0.455
age                   -1.192e-03  2.627e-02  -0.045   0.964
as.numeric(education)  9.408e-02  1.577e-01   0.597   0.551
as.numeric(income)    -8.338e-02  6.308e-02  -1.322   0.186
sigma                 -2.739e-10  1.007e+00   0.000   1.000
--------------------------------------------
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
--------------------------------------------
Maximum Likelihood estimation
Newton-Raphson maximisation, 5 iterations
Return code 8: successive function values within relative tolerance limit (reltol)
Log-Likelihood: -54.53849 
5  free parameters
Estimates:
                        Estimate Std. error t value Pr(> t)
(Intercept)            6.373e-02  7.847e-01   0.081   0.935
age                    4.577e-03  2.697e-02   0.170   0.865
as.numeric(education)  7.831e-02  1.578e-01   0.496   0.620
poverty_zip           -6.075e-02  2.182e-01  -0.278   0.781
sigma                 -4.982e-08  9.720e-01   0.000   1.000
--------------------------------------------
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}
--------------------------------------------
Maximum Likelihood estimation
Newton-Raphson maximisation, 7 iterations
Return code 1: gradient close to zero (gradtol)
Log-Likelihood: -53.3177 
5  free parameters
Estimates:
                        Estimate Std. error t value Pr(> t)
(Intercept)           -6.211e-02  7.747e-01  -0.080   0.936
age                    3.654e-03  2.676e-02   0.137   0.891
as.numeric(education)  1.215e-01  1.615e-01   0.752   0.452
median_income_zip     -3.523e-01  2.281e-01  -1.544   0.122
sigma                  5.139e-11  9.810e-01   0.000   1.000
--------------------------------------------
\end{verbatim}

\hypertarget{urgency-bias-and-deprivation-measures}{%
\subsection{Â¶Urgency Bias and Deprivation
Measures}\label{urgency-bias-and-deprivation-measures}}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/img-urg-pca-1.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/img-urg-pca-2.pdf}

\begin{verbatim}

Call:
lm(formula = Urgency ~ income * stai, data = trade_off_accuracy)

Residuals:
     Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max 
-0.97332 -0.33284  0.05618  0.32169  0.70287 

Coefficients:
                Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)  
(Intercept)     0.631823   0.253099   2.496   0.0139 *
income.L        0.930951   1.032625   0.902   0.3692  
income.Q        1.310413   1.031955   1.270   0.2067  
income.C        0.170411   0.992886   0.172   0.8640  
income^4        0.022143   0.983775   0.023   0.9821  
income^5       -0.602523   0.836765  -0.720   0.4729  
income^6        0.878878   0.824150   1.066   0.2884  
income^7        0.336358   0.827968   0.406   0.6853  
income^8        0.542407   0.834785   0.650   0.5171  
income^9        0.286211   0.787707   0.363   0.7170  
income^10      -1.098670   0.659336  -1.666   0.0983 .
income^11       1.036796   0.744274   1.393   0.1663  
stai           -0.001608   0.005655  -0.284   0.7766  
income.L:stai  -0.021575   0.022679  -0.951   0.3434  
income.Q:stai  -0.022495   0.022307  -1.008   0.3153  
income.C:stai   0.005348   0.021776   0.246   0.8064  
income^4:stai  -0.004301   0.021510  -0.200   0.8419  
income^5:stai   0.016948   0.019018   0.891   0.3747  
income^6:stai  -0.019851   0.019297  -1.029   0.3057  
income^7:stai  -0.008884   0.018524  -0.480   0.6324  
income^8:stai  -0.004203   0.018643  -0.225   0.8220  
income^9:stai   0.001841   0.018378   0.100   0.9204  
income^10:stai  0.026004   0.015447   1.683   0.0950 .
income^11:stai -0.023131   0.016476  -1.404   0.1630  
---
Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1

Residual standard error: 0.4577 on 117 degrees of freedom
  (1 observation deleted due to missingness)
Multiple R-squared:  0.274, Adjusted R-squared:  0.1313 
F-statistic:  1.92 on 23 and 117 DF,  p-value: 0.01289
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}

Call:
glm(formula = as.numeric(Urgency) ~ income * stai, family = "binomial", 
    data = trade_off_accuracy)

Deviance Residuals: 
    Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max  
-2.3817  -0.9022   0.3707   0.8958   1.6009  

Coefficients:
                 Estimate Std. Error z value Pr(>|z|)
(Intercept)      2.537281 158.210599   0.016    0.987
income.L        14.501104 397.000289   0.037    0.971
income.Q         6.915760 294.624840   0.023    0.981
income.C        -2.342265 661.521544  -0.004    0.997
income^4         0.692770 275.929604   0.003    0.998
income^5         0.993072 436.482912   0.002    0.998
income^6        15.261138 708.441778   0.022    0.983
income^7         3.968649 259.295923   0.015    0.988
income^8         0.564147 483.263705   0.001    0.999
income^9        -5.144107 900.076068  -0.006    0.995
income^10      -12.725780 776.827596  -0.016    0.987
income^11        2.410137 372.953246   0.006    0.995
stai            -0.063169   5.273380  -0.012    0.990
income.L:stai   -0.361615  13.230667  -0.027    0.978
income.Q:stai   -0.084344   9.817283  -0.009    0.993
income.C:stai    0.171087  22.049196   0.008    0.994
income^4:stai   -0.003352   9.194547   0.000    1.000
income^5:stai   -0.042589  14.548315  -0.003    0.998
income^6:stai   -0.408018  23.614245  -0.017    0.986
income^7:stai   -0.123880   8.641382  -0.014    0.989
income^8:stai    0.079297  16.107777   0.005    0.996
income^9:stai    0.244722  30.002178   0.008    0.993
income^10:stai   0.365465  25.894025   0.014    0.989
income^11:stai  -0.014740  12.431394  -0.001    0.999

(Dispersion parameter for binomial family taken to be 1)

    Null deviance: 189.46  on 140  degrees of freedom
Residual deviance: 144.59  on 117  degrees of freedom
  (1 observation deleted due to missingness)
AIC: 192.59

Number of Fisher Scoring iterations: 14
\end{verbatim}

\begin{verbatim}

Call:
lm(formula = Urgency ~ age + education + income, data = trade_off_accuracy)

Residuals:
    Min      1Q  Median      3Q     Max 
-0.8782 -0.3542  0.1270  0.2949  0.7261 

Coefficients:
            Estimate Std. Error t value Pr(>|t|)  
(Intercept)  0.64128    0.28510   2.249   0.0272 *
age         -0.00173    0.00915  -0.189   0.8505  
education.L  0.17418    0.33022   0.527   0.5993  
education.Q -0.28788    0.28185  -1.021   0.3101  
education.C  0.14824    0.24217   0.612   0.5422  
education^4  0.12081    0.18666   0.647   0.5193  
education^5  0.08514    0.18169   0.469   0.6406  
education^6 -0.20086    0.17495  -1.148   0.2543  
income.L     0.09741    0.18407   0.529   0.5981  
income.Q     0.19075    0.18318   1.041   0.3009  
income.C     0.39939    0.20888   1.912   0.0594 .
income^4    -0.29548    0.20414  -1.447   0.1517  
income^5     0.17011    0.22274   0.764   0.4473  
income^6    -0.09810    0.19487  -0.503   0.6161  
income^7     0.10558    0.20188   0.523   0.6024  
income^8     0.29780    0.28847   1.032   0.3050  
income^9     0.42472    0.23011   1.846   0.0686 .
income^10   -0.15619    0.19848  -0.787   0.4336  
income^11   -0.10358    0.17588  -0.589   0.5576  
---
Signif. codes:  0 '***' 0.001 '**' 0.01 '*' 0.05 '.' 0.1 ' ' 1

Residual standard error: 0.4678 on 80 degrees of freedom
  (43 observations deleted due to missingness)
Multiple R-squared:  0.2522,    Adjusted R-squared:  0.08392 
F-statistic: 1.499 on 18 and 80 DF,  p-value: 0.1125
\end{verbatim}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/img-urg-pca-3.pdf}

\includegraphics{thesis-file-ppq_files/figure-latex/img-urg-pca-4.pdf}

\hypertarget{dynamic-programming-simulation}{%
\subsection{Â§Dynamic Programming
Simulation}\label{dynamic-programming-simulation}}

\hypertarget{bayesian-model-for-cost-estimation}{%
\subsection{Â§Bayesian Model for Cost
Estimation}\label{bayesian-model-for-cost-estimation}}

\hypertarget{model}{%
\subsubsection{Model}\label{model}}

\hypertarget{estimation}{%
\subsubsection{Estimation}\label{estimation}}

\hypertarget{code}{%
\subsection{Code}\label{code}}

\hypertarget{priority-queuing-simulation}{%
\subsubsection{Priority Queuing
Simulation}\label{priority-queuing-simulation}}

\hypertarget{dynamic-programming-simulation-1}{%
\subsubsection{Dynamic Programming
Simulation}\label{dynamic-programming-simulation-1}}

\hypertarget{bayesian-model-for-cost-estimation-1}{%
\subsubsection{Bayesian Model for Cost
Estimation}\label{bayesian-model-for-cost-estimation-1}}

\hypertarget{model-1}{%
\paragraph{Model}\label{model-1}}

\hypertarget{model-data}{%
\paragraph{Model Data}\label{model-data}}

\hypertarget{estimation-1}{%
\paragraph{Estimation}\label{estimation-1}}

\hypertarget{questionnaires}{%
\subsection{Questionnaires}\label{questionnaires}}

The remaining pages include the questionnaires we will administer to
participants in the next experiment iterations.
